now Iran says it doesn't want to
escalate tensions in the Middle East but
believes it needs to punish Israel to
prevent further instability in the
region it comes amid fears that a major
escalation is imminent that follows last
week's killings of the Hamas political
Chief in tan and a senior commander of
the Lebanese group Hezbollah which has
vowed to avenge the killings a growing
number of countries including the US and
Saudi Arabia have urged their citizens
to leave Lebanon as soon as possible
while in Gaza the Hamas run Health
Ministry says the death toll from the
war has now reached
39,6 23 people it comes after an Israeli
air strike hit two schools in Gaza City
housing displaced people the Israeli
military said it struck Hamas in what
they called control rooms in the school
buildings our Middle East correspondent
yoland Nell has more yeah I mean a lot
is going on diplomatically um with these
different overtures towards Iran
particularly through uh Arab countries
in the region to try to urge restraint
but as you say it's really seen as such
a humiliation what happened um in tan
last week with the assassination of the
Hamas leader isma Han um so you know
Iran of course backs different armed
groups around this region they include
Hamas they include uh Hezbollah as well
and now there is this raised expectation
of an attack on Israel a major attack by
Iran uh that could involve its proxies
as well what we've seen um in the past
day is a continuation across the Israel
Lebanon border of these exchanges of
fire between uh the Israeli military and
Hezbollah uh but really the expectation
is of something much greater uh that is
imminent and you've got the Pentagon
that has moved um some of its major
military assets um to the region it's
treating this not just as um
a way of showing its Ironclad support
for Israel but as we were hearing there
a way of also um protecting its own
interests its own forces around the
region which could uh be potential
targets as well I mean Israel is uh
staying defiant we've had this meeting
that lasted about 4 hours um discussing
different possibilities for a response
to an attack from Iran the different
scenarios that may come about we heard
from the Israeli Prime Minister B
Netanyahu a couple of times yesterday
basically uh that Israel was ready for
any kind of scenario we believe that the
US um according to reports is
approaching different countries that
were involved in that Coalition that
helped Israel to thwart a direct attack
from Iran back in April uh that included
uh the UK it included France and Jordan
as well um to see if they will be
involved in repelling another attack a
similar attack if that were to happen uh
but really this remains an extremely
difficult time analysts warning that you
know this is the moment of greatest
Peril in years in the Middle East